Online Programiz SQL Compiler compatible code was used for this project. Hence some due to the *constraints* posed by the online compiler, not all planned features were able to be integrated into the final program.

There are a total of 5 tables in the project.

Student, CourseInfo, AttendanceServer, Schedule and Subject. These come together to form the attendance managing system 
(although it is a student data DB on it's own once it became more complex).

### CourseInfo

Stores all the info on the course the student is enrolled in.
- Even if the Batch Year and Course are same, different CourseIDs are given to different divisions for simplicity's sake (but could also be part of the college/university's database system, maybe they want different courseIDs for a stronger key).
- BatchYr is the Year of admission.
- Originally planned to use derived attribute Yr to calculate which year the students are currently in, but doesn't work on online SQL. It was assumed that academic year starts on New Year's

### Student

Stores all the info of the student like rollNo, **course enrolled in (as FK)**, address, etc.
- Originally had a Age attribute, but couldn't be integrated due to online compiler *restraints*.

### Schedule

Stores the Schedule of every class (CourseID).
- **9:00 to 16:00 are the timings. 11:00 to 12:00 and 13:00 to 15:00 are assumed as breaks**, so no lectures are present in those time slots.

### Subject

Stores the info related to each Subject
- Same subject, even for same Yr same course enrolled students have different SubjectID.
    - This can be explained by the college wanting to have different IDs due to faculty, syllabus differences, wanting to keep different IDs for subjects taught by different faculty or to track any anomalies in teaching one class V.S. the other etc if this database was expanded fully to integrate into every part of the college/university database

### AttendanceServer

Intended highlight of the project. Every log is a PK (AttendanceID in the table). The name Attendance Server was given due to the assumption that all of the attendance database is stored on a dedicated server.

For Attended attribute-
- **0** = **Absent**
- **1** = **Present**

## Misc

### AI Use
***AI, LLMs, Chatbots, etc WERE NOT USED IN ANY WAY, SHAPE, MAGNITUDE OR FORM FOR THE STRUCTURE, MAKING, LOGIC, BRAINSTORMING, IDEA THINKING, PROBLEM SOLVING ASPECT OF THE PROJECT, WRITING OF THIS DOCUMENT OR ANY OTHER RELATED COGNITIVE ACTIVITIES.***.

***ChatGPT was utilized for the random generation of records.*** **(*Names of the courses along with their initialization* and the code coverage verification and data display DML prompts at the end were still written by me)**. Rest was generated by ChatGPT after providing it with the necessary requirements for each record. This was done to have a very large amount of records, mimicking realism and allowing for heavy usage of DML statements along with WHERE to allow for a output that doesn't just result in an empty set due to no records even being there for that DML statement at the end and to verify that the entire system is robust and expandable. **Writing down 5000 attendance records, 450 student records, 375 schedule records** manually was obviously not feasable so ChatGPT was utilized only and only for this exact purpose of generating records. ~310000 characters *(6000 lines in the project)* provides a huge dataset which is pretty useful. This was extremely effective in testing the working of the code and project as proven by the DML prompts at the end.

***THIS WAS THE SOLE AND ONLY USE OF AI IN THE PROJECT. THE REST, ESPECIALLY INCLUDING LOGIC AND STRUCTURE IS COMPLETELY HAND CRAFTED AND MOLDED.***

### ER Diagram

- Red = Student
- Green = CourseInfo
- Blue = AttendanceServer
- Orange = Schedule
- Yellow = Subject
- **Purple = Relationship Box**

- Purple Lines = Entity Relationship Lines
- Other Colored Lines = Foreign Key of table [color] **(but same color = PK of table)**

- **Bold** = Entity (Table)
- *Italic FK* = Foreign Key
- Underlined = Primary Key

ER diagram was made with help of the Obsidian Notetaking app, specifically with the Canvas feature (with Advanced Canvas plugin).

### Resources Used

https://programiz.com/sql/online-compiler *(for compilation of code)*
Visual Studio Code *(for viewing code and editing this document)*
ChatGPT ***(STRICTLY ONLY FOR RANDOM RECORD GENERATION AS EXPLAINED ABOVE IN AI USE)***

Obsidian https://obsidian.md *(for ER Diagram)*

